JCA-63: Rond documentation review (#60)
rond-authz/rond-authz.github.io: _docs/policy-integration.md

  content="Since creating the map still requires some computations to be performed over the user bindings, you may not perceive any optimization benefit from using the feature, if the Rego policy is already fast. Enable the feature only when necessary to avoid useless computations to be performed."
%}

## Rego package

In order to execute policy a valuation, a Rego package file is required. You have to provide it inside the directory specified with the `OPA_MODULES_DIRECTORY` environment variable.

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="Since the package **must** be named `policies`, the Rego file must start as follows:"
%}

```go
package policies

// Write your policy here ...
```

> NOTE: When defining your `allow` policy in the `x-rond` attribute, you may want to use a `.` character to specify a namespace for your permissions:   

Reviewer: This note is not true, please remove it alltogether with the example below; policies can not have dots in their name.

The reason for this note was a feature supported in one of the earliest versions of rond (maybe 0.2.0) where the policy to be executed where defined by the permission name; however we discarded that design in favour of the x-permission.allow (and now x-rond.requestFlow.policyName) configuration

Author: Improved description

```go
package policies

policy.name {
  // Your validations here ...
}
```
```rego
"x-rond": {
   "allow": "policy.name" # note the '.' in the policy name
}
```  

However since the **`.` character is not supported by Rego** in the policy name, thus it will be automatically replaced with an `_` by Rönd:  
```go
package policies

policy_name {
  // Your validations here ...
}
```
```rego
"x-rond": {
   "allow": "policy_name" # note the '_' in the policy name
}
```

## Example of a simple policy

Let's look to an example of a policy that checks the presence of a specific header in the `request` field.  
The policy should contain a permission named `api_key`, and the required header is named `x-api-key`.

To do this, we can follow two similar approaches:  
We can look for the `x-api-key` header in the `input.request.headers` map:

```rego
package policies

default api_key = false
api_key {
  count(input.request.headers["X-Api-Key"]) != 0
}
```

Or we could use the [`get_header` built-in function](/docs/policy-integration#custom-built-ins).

> ```rego

Reviewer: i would not duplicate the example here; let's just provide the user the hint and link to the built-int function

Author: removed duplicated example

package policies

default api_key = false
api_key {
  get_header("x-api-key", input.request.headers) != ""
}
```

For a more complete set of available functions please check out the [Rönd cheat-sheet](https://rond-authz.io/docs/cheat-sheet).  
You can find out other real examples on our [examples repository on GitHub](https://github.com/rond-authz/example). 

## RBAC Data model

When the variables `MONGODB_URL`, `ROLES_COLLECTION_NAME` and `BINDINGS_COLLECTION_NAME` are set, Rönd can perform checks over the user permissions. These permissions, in the form of ***Roles*** and ***Bindings***, are then provided in the `input` object: in this way your policy can operate according to your needs, based on user actual permissions.  

> These kind of checks are known as `Rows Filtering`, more details below.

Reviewer: This is not true; "Rows Filtering" feature is the capability to generate queries from the policy code; RBAC data (which is retrieved when the variables MONGODB_URL; etc) is a completely different feature set.

Author: improved description

```json
[
   {
      "roleId": "roleUniqueIdentifier",
      "name": "TL",
      "description": "company tech leader",
      "permissions": [
         "console.project.view",
         "console.environment.deploy",
         "console.company.billing.view"
      ]
   }
]
```

##### Bindings

A Binding represents an association between a set of Subjects (or groups), a set of Roles and (optionally) a Resource.
This collection contains all the bindings between users or groups of users and a resource with a list of roles. The fields for this collections are:

- **bindingId** (string, required): **_unique_** id of the binding
- **groups** (string array): list of user group identifiers
- **subject** (string array): list of user ids
- **roles** (string array): list of role ids
- **permissions**: (strings) list of permission ids
- **resource**: (object) with properties `type` and `id`

```json
[
   {   
      "bindingId": "bindingUniqueIdentifier",
      "groups": [
         "team1"
      ],
      "subjects": [
         "bob"
      ],
      "roles": [
         "TLRoleId"
      ],
      "resource": {
         "resourceId": "project1",
         "resourceType": "project"
      }
   }
]
```

> ## Rows Filtering

Reviewer: I'd tell this (and also the response filter) before talking about RBAC

Author: Moved RBAC section to the end :+1:

      }
   }
]
```

We succeed obtaining the following object representing a MongoDB query:
```json
[
   {
      "$or":[
         {
            "$and":[
               {
                  "name":{
                     "$eq":"alice"
                  }
               },
               {
                  "description":{
                     "$eq":"this is the user description"
                  }
               }
            ]
         },
         {
            "$and":[
               {
                  "manager":{
                     "$eq":"alice"
                  }
               },
               {
                  "name":{
                     "$eq":"bob"
                  }
               }
            ]
         }
      ]
   }
]
```

## Response Filtering

Sometimes you need to filter out or manipulate some fields in the response before sending it to the final target. This case is known as `Response Filtering`.  
Rönd allows you to manipulate the response body directly in a policy.

The policy MUST respect the syntax:

``` rego
policy_name[return_value]{
   somePolicyContent == true
}
```

And MUST return the new value of the modified data:

```rego

> filter_response_example[result] {

Reviewer 2: Mettiamo una citazione alla generazione dei sets di rego (https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/#generating-sets) per spiegare che le policy di response filtering devo generare un set. Al momento viene preso solo il primo elemento di questo set e viene ritornato come nuova risposta all'utente

Author: added link to OPA documentation for sets

  content="Since creating the map still requires some computations to be performed over the user bindings, you may not perceive any optimization benefit from using the feature, if the Rego policy is already fast. Enable the feature only when necessary to avoid useless computations to be performed."
%}

### Rego package

In order to execute policy a valuation, a Rego package file is required. You have to provide it inside the directory specified with the `OPA_MODULES_DIRECTORY` environment variable.

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="Since the package **must** be named `policies`, the Rego file must start as follows:"
%}

```go
package policies

// Write your policy here ...
```
{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"

>   content="Since the **`.` character is not supported by Rego** in the policy name, we suggest to use `_` character when defining policy names:"

Reviewer: I'd remove this warning, it makes no sense: `.` is not supported therefore the one provided is a useless suggestion.

It's like suggesting not to use `.` in function names in JavaScript and use the `_` instead; you couldn't use the `.` at all so what is the suggestion about?

This concept is still biased from that older rönd version I told you in my previous review but is meaningless now

Author: removed misleading warning

%}

```go
package policies

the_policy_name {
  // Your validations here ...
}
```
```rego
"x-rond": {
   "requestFlow": {
      "policyName": "the_policy_name"  # note the '_' in the policy name
   }
}
```

## Rego Policies 101

Let's look to an example of a policy that checks the presence of a specific header in the `request` field.  
The policy contains a *permission* named `api_key`, and the required header that we want to check is `x-api-key`.

To do this, we can follow two similar approaches:  
We can look for the `x-api-key` header to be contained in the `input.request.headers` map:

```rego
package policies

default api_key = false
api_key {
  count(input.request.headers["X-Api-Key"]) != 0
}
```

In alternative, Rönd provides a set of [built-in functions](/docs/policy-integration#custom-built-ins) like the [`get_header`](/docs/policy-integration#get_header) one.

> For a more complete set of available functions please check out the [Rönd cheat-sheet](https://rond-authz.io/docs/cheat-sheet).  

Reviewer: can we use relative links for this; so it does not depend on the current domain URL

Author: ```suggestion
For a more complete set of available functions please check out the [Rönd cheat-sheet](/docs/cheat-sheet).  
```

Author: fixed link

> For a more complete set of available functions please check out the [Rönd cheat-sheet](https://rond-authz.io/docs/cheat-sheet).  

Author: ```suggestion
For a more complete set of available functions please check out the [Rönd cheat-sheet](/docs/cheat-sheet).  
```

You can find out other real examples on our [examples repository on GitHub](https://github.com/rond-authz/example). 

### Rows Filtering

> Sometimes you need to filter out some results basing on the rights or on the role of the current user.  

Reviewer: what are "the rights" in the context of Rönd? I'd simply state something like:

```suggestion
Sometimes you need to filter out some results based on the user privileges.  
```

When defining a policy with `requestFlow` 
Rönd can automatically generate a query for your DBMS coming from the evaluation of the permissions of a user.  
This query is then passed to the requested service through the header specified by the `headerName` field in your [OAS Schema](/docs/configuration#openapi-specification-file).

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="For Rönd versions **older than 1.5**, the `headerKey` field of your OAS Schema should be used."
%}

In order for Rönd to perform this query generation, you need to configure the `MONGODB_URL`, `ROLES_COLLECTION_NAME` and `BINDINGS_COLLECTION_NAME` variables.

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="If `MONGODB_URL` variable is set, then the envs `ROLES_COLLECTION_NAME` and `BINDINGS_COLLECTION_NAME` are required."
%}

### Response Filtering

> Sometimes you need to filter out or manipulate some fields in the response before sending it to the final target. This case is known as `Response Filtering`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you need to filter out or manipulate some fields in the response before sending it to the client This case is known as `Response Filtering`.  
```

Rönd allows you to manipulate the response body directly in a policy.

Unlike Request policies where policies returns a boolean value, Response Filtering policies should return a set that represents the new response object.  
For more details about sets, check out the [OPA documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/#generating-sets).

The policy MUST respect the syntax:

``` rego

> policy_name[return_value]{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
policy_name [return_value] {
```

   somePolicyContent == true
   return_value := "the body of the response"
}
```

And MUST return the new value of the modified data:

```rego

> filter_response_example[result] {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filter_response_example [result] {
```

We remind you that the query will be built from the field name of the `resource` object accessed in the permission.

This query is then passed to the requested service through the header specified by the `headerName` field in your [OAS Schema](/docs/configuration#openapi-specification-file).

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="To build your query remember to assign to `data.resources[_]` iterable the same properties you have defined in the data model you need to be queried."
%}

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="For Rönd versions **older than 1.5**, the `headerKey` field of your OAS Schema should be used."
%}

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="Policy for row filtering does not support the `default` declaration.  
  E.g: `default allow = true`. Using it will prevent any filter to be generated."
%}

Let's see it in action:
``` json
"x-rond": {
   "requestFlow": {
      "policyName": "generate_query_policy_name",
      "generateQuery": true,
      "queryOptions": {
         "headerName": "x-query-header"
      }

>    },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   }
```

}
```

``` rego
package policies

generate_query_policy_name {
   input.request.method == "GET"
   resource := data.resources[_]
   resource._id == input.user.userId
   resource.description == "this is the user description"
}

generate_query_policy_name {
   input.request.method == "GET"
   resource := data.resources[_]
   resource.managerId == input.user.userId
   resource.name == input.request.path[1]
}
```

In the example above, given a valid rows filtering configuration, the policy requires that the requested resource details can be retrieved by the user and by its manager.  
This way, given the following input to the permission evaluator:
```json
[
   {
      "input": {
         "method": "GET",

>          "request": { "path": ["resource", "654321"], },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         "request": { "path": ["resource", "654321"] },
```

>          "user": { "userId": "123456", }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         "user": { "userId": "123456" }
```

- **subject** (string array): list of user ids
- **roles** (string array): list of role ids
- **permissions**: (strings) list of permission ids
- **resource**: (object) with properties `type` and `id`

```json
[
   {   
      "bindingId": "bindingUniqueIdentifier",
      "groups": [
         "team1"
      ],
      "subjects": [
         "bob"
      ],
      "roles": [
         "TLRoleId"
      ],
      "resource": {
         "resourceId": "project1",
         "resourceType": "project"
      }
   }
]
```

### RBAC Policies for permission evaluation

Any RBAC policy is provided with the iterable `data.resources[_]`. This structure is used to build up the query. 
You can use it to perform any kind of comparison between it and anything you want from the input or maybe a constant value.  
We remind you that the query will be built from the field name of the resource object accessed in the permission.

{%
  include alert.html
  type="warning"
  content="To build your query remember to assign to `data.resources` iterable the same properties you have defined in the data model you need to be queried."
%}

```rego
package policies

> filter_projects_example {

Reviewer: ```
has_read_permission {
  roles := input.user.roles[_]
  roles.permissions[_] == "can_read"
}
```

   bindings := input.user.bindings[_]
   resource := data.resources[_]
   resource._id == bindings.resource.resourceId
}
```

In the example below, given a valid rows filtering configuration, the `allow` policy requires that the requested resource details can be retrieved by the user and by its manager.

```rego
package policies

allow {
   input.request.method == "GET"
   resource := data.resources[_]

>    resource.name == input.user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   resource.name == input.user.userId
```

```json
[
   {
      "roleId": "roleUniqueIdentifier",
      "name": "TL",
      "description": "company tech leader",
      "permissions": [
         "console.project.view",
         "console.environment.deploy",
         "console.company.billing.view"
      ]
   }
]
```

##### Bindings

A Binding represents an association between a set of Subjects (or groups), a set of Roles and (optionally) a Resource.
This collection contains all the bindings between users or groups of users and a resource with a list of roles. The fields for this collections are:

- **bindingId** (string, required): **_unique_** id of the binding
- **groups** (string array): list of user group identifiers
- **subject** (string array): list of user ids
- **roles** (string array): list of role ids
- **permissions**: (strings) list of permission ids
- **resource**: (object) with properties `type` and `id`

```json
[
   {   
      "bindingId": "bindingUniqueIdentifier",
      "groups": [
         "team1"
      ],
      "subjects": [
         "bob"
      ],
      "roles": [
         "TLRoleId"
      ],
      "resource": {
         "resourceId": "project1",
         "resourceType": "project"
      }
   }
]
```

> ### RBAC Policies for permission evaluation

Reviewer: This section does not provide any example of RBAC permission evaluation; I think there is still some confusion about policy evaluation and how RBAC takes place in Rönd. They are two orthogonal features.

Policy evaluation is the essence of the service, it is meant to intercept requests and evaluate policy to let you define API access.

These policies have, by default, an input object that gives all the information about the request (and the response, during the reponse flow); with these information you can write policies that are aware of the request context. 

RBAC is an additional feature, a well-defined data model (with a set of specific management API, when in standalone mode), that adds more info in the `input` object so that your policies are not only request-aware but also aware of the user roles that are defined in the RBAC datastore.

> Any RBAC policy is provided with the iterable `data.resources[_]`. This structure is used to build up the query. 

Reviewer: `data.resources` is not related to RBAC in any way. `data.resources` is used for request query generation. 

The RBAC feature simply automatically loads user roles and bindings from the configured Database based on the user that is performing the request. roles and bindings are loaded and set in the `input.user` object
